Now, let us consider the question, how does Jehovah care for those who are humble?
Now, humility is a quality that is part of our figurative heart, and just like other
qualities of the heart like kindness, mildness, patience, humility is a quality that we cannot
see.
And so, have you ever said about a brother or sister in your congregation or hear that
battle?
That brother or that sister is so humble.
Now what made you say that did you see a little cloud filled with humility, hovering
above the brother or sister?
No, but you must have seen something that made you conclude that a brother or sister
is humble.
What was that something?
Now to answer, think of this comparison, imagine you walk into a store and you see a display
of boxes with chocolate.
The boxes look nice, but you wonder, what's the quality of the chocolates?
Then a store clerk gives you a chocolate as a sample.
You taste it?
That's good.
Now you know what is in the box.
So what's the lesson of this little story?
Well, just like tasting a sample chocolate reveals the quality of the chocolate in the
box, so seeing an act of humility reveals the depth of humility in someone's heart.
After all, if we don't prove by words or by actions our humility, no one will know that
we have it.
So when do we have opportunities to give out samples so to speak of our humility?
Now the Watchtower article that is the source of today's comments mentions three situations
that may test the depth and January nurse of our humility.
The three situations are when we receive counsel, when others receive privileges of surface,
or when we receive, when we face new circumstances.
Now today's comments focus on the third situation.
They focus on the changes of assignments that have been received by a good number of
traveling overseers and their wives, better lights, brothers and sisters in other forms
of full-time service as well as by coordinators of the body of elders.
Now why can we say that these brothers and sisters offered a beautiful sample of their
humility by accepting their changes of assignment?
To answer, note this quote from the Watchtower comments.
Such adjustments were not easy for these brothers and sisters to make.
Obviously they felt attached to their former assignments in many cases, one that they had
cherished for years.
Some went through a grieving process as they adjusted to their new circumstances.
A grieving process.
The Watchtower does not often use that expression, but in the case of those who were asked to
give up an assignment that they dearly loved, it is a proper expression to use.
Though facing new circumstances was difficult, these brothers and sisters who used to serve
at battle in the traveling work accepted the change with humility.
Now how did Jehovah help them?
Now we find an answer that Isaiah 57 verse 15, which is the text for today.
Now in the beginning of the verse, Isaiah is speaking.
He says about Jehovah, for this is what the high and lofty one says, who lives forever and
whose name is Jehovah.
Now then Jehovah begins to speak.
He confirms what Isaiah said, but adds a surprising thought to what Jehovah says.
I reside in the high and holy place, but also with those crust and lowly in spirit.
Now let's pause here for a moment.
One Bible reference work says that if you reside or dwell mentioned in the beginning of
the sentence is implied in the second part of the sentence, so we could read the sentence
as follows.
I reside in the high and holy place, but I also reside with those crust and lowly in spirit.
Now think about this statement made by Jehovah.
Is it not amazing and heartwarming?
Note the combination of qualities that he expresses.
He is high and holy, but also nearby and humble.
He is mighty and powerful, but also attentive and tender in his feelings with lowly ones.
Now also note this, Jehovah did not say I see those who are lowly.
He did not say I hear those who are lowly, but he said I reside with those who are lowly.
Now to understand this verse better, let us consider a few questions.
First, what is the meaning of reside?
Well, one Bible dictionary defines the Hebrew word translated reside as settle down.
Now what comes to your mind when you hear the expression settle down?
Does the word make you think of a visitor who rushes in and leaves quickly?
No, instead it makes us think of a visitor who settles in an easy chair, leans back and takes his time to stay with us.
In Jehovah's case, he resides or settled down for the visit with us by means of his holy spirit.
Another question.
What does Jehovah do when he resides with us?
Now note the last part of the verse.
There you see another word that is mentioned two times.
We read to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of those being crushed.
Now, to revive means to raise from discouragement and depression.
Thus, in this precious scripture, Jehovah promises that he will take his time to be with his humble servants who are discouraged or even crushed.
And why does Jehovah reside with us when we are discouraged?
To help us to regain the inner peace and the inner strength that we need to deal with,
challenging circumstances and to continue serving Jehovah with joy.
Now, that is the way in which Jehovah cares for all his humble servants and that is also the way in which Jehovah helped our brothers and sisters who humbly accepted the chains of assignment.
Jehovah gently helped them to let their feelings of sadness fade away and to embrace the joys that were waiting in their new assignment.
Now, one couple who received a new assignment related how an illustration helped them to keep in mind what had changed and what had not changed.
The couple said,
we think of a parent and children.
A parent may decide to move a child from one bedroom to another room in the house,
but the child still lives in the same house and receives the same love and care from the parent.
And then the couple added.
Likewise, Jehovah may decide to move his servants from one form of full-time service to another one,
but they still live in the same house, so to speak, and receive the same love and protection from Jehovah.
Indeed, as that couple observed, our assignments made chains,
but the love that we receive from Jehovah does not change.
In fact, when we show humility,
Jehovah's warm feelings toward us are bound to increase.
So what did we consider?
Jehovah cares for all his servants who are humble.
When you observe that we are overwhelmed with sadness,
Jehovah will reside with us in order to revive us.
Our brothers and sisters who have humbly accepted a change of assignment
experience how Jehovah helped them to overcome their initial feelings of disappointment.